Auteur : [[Sadhguru]]
MOC : [[YOGA]] - [[SPIRITUALITÉ]]
Source : [[Inner Engineering]]
Date : 202302021119
***

## Le but pratique du yoga
- The system of yoga is a technology to create a distinction between you and your mind. There is a space between you and what you have gathered in terms of body and mind. Becoming conscious of this space is your first and only step to freedom. It is the accumulated physiological and psychological content that causes the cyclical patterns in your life and even beyond. If you can be constantly conscious of this space between you and the body-mind, you have opened up a dimension of limitless possibility. There are only two forms of suffering in this world: physical and mental. Once this distance becomes a constant factor in your experience, you have reached the end of suffering. ([Location 2001](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B01B0K98D8&location=2001))
- When you are consciously in touch with your awareness, you gain access to the subtlest dimension of physicality, or akash. As we have seen before, the universe is just a play of five elements—water, fire, earth, air, and ether. Creation is just a frolic of these five. It is ether that we refer to as “akash” in yogic terminology, and each human being has a certain dimension of this fifth element around him or her. While the other elements are within the body, the akashic, or etheric, dimension envelops the physical body—usually up to a distance of eighteen to twenty-one inches. Because this element is still physical, it carries information. Anything that happens at a certain level of intensity or profundity in your life is written into this field of akash around you. ([Location 2283](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B01B0K98D8&location=2283))
- **Once you are in touch with your awareness, you don’t have to try to accomplish anything. You don’t even have to wish or dream, because the best possible thing that can happen to you will happen.** In the yogic lore, it is said that when you learn to access this dimension, you have enslaved the divine! God works for you from now on. What exactly does this mean? This means that once you distance yourself from the compulsiveness of your own genetic and karmic information, life becomes unburdened, flexible, incredibly effortless. This is a dimension beyond intellect, beyond identification, beyond memory, beyond judgment, beyond karma, beyond divisions of every kind. This is the intelligence of existence itself, in which life always happens exactly the way it should, with absolute and unfaltering ease. ([Location 2293](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B01B0K98D8&location=2293))
- The spiritual process is always a quest. There is a significant difference between believing and seeking. Believing means you have assumed something that you do not know; seeking means you have realized that you do not know. ([Location 2392](https://readwise.io/to_kindle?action=open&asin=B01B0K98D8&location=2392))
[[Il faut se rendre compte que notre intelligence n'est rien]]